README.md, before:

# babble-etl

# Data Processing and Analysis Tool Documentation

### Overview

This documentation outlines the process of data extraction, cleaning, transformation, and analysis of a CSV file using a configuration file in JSON format.


## JSON Configuration Structure
Below is an example of a JSON configuration file structure:

# clean_data.json
{
    "data_file": "path/to/your/input.csv",
    
    "columns": [
        "Nest ID", 
        "Nestling ID", 
        "Nestling", 
        "Sex", 
        "Treatment",
        "babbles"
    ],
    
    "transformations": {
        "Nest ID": "strip",
        "Date": "to_datetime"
    },
    
    "fill_na": {
        "numeric": 0,
        "string": ""
    },
    
    "rename_columns": {
        "old_name": "new_name"
    },
   
    "data_types": {
        "Nest ID": "str",
        "Nestling ID": "str",
        "babbles": "str"
    }
}


## Key Fields in the JSON File
* data_file: Path to the raw CSV file to be processed.
* columns: List of columns to be included in the dataset.
* transformations: Dictionary specifying any transformations to be applied to the data.
* fill_na: Dictionary for handling missing values in specific columns.
* rename_columns: Dictionary mapping original column names to new names.
* data_types: Dictionary specifying data types for columns, if applicable.


## Command Line Arguments

The following command-line arguments can be used to run the script:

| Argument         | Type   | Required | Default | Description                                                                                   |
|------------------|--------|----------|---------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| -i, --input      | String | Yes      | N/A     | Path to the input JSON file for data cleaning and transformation steps.                       |
| -m, --minlength  | Int    | No       | 2       | Minimum length for sequences used in pair analysis.                                           |
| -k, --kmeans     | Int    | No       | 6       | Number of clusters for k-means clustering.                                                    |
| -a, --analysis   | String | No       | N/A     | Type of frequency analysis to perform (choices: singles, pairs, triples, quads, quints, all). |
| -d, --dump       | Flag   | No       | False   | Flag to indicate if sequences should be dumped into a plot.                                   |
| -l, --loglevel   | String | No       | WARNING | Log level for script execution (choices: DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, CRITICAL).              |


## Script Workflow

1. **Configuration Parsing:**
    * The script reads the JSON configuration file specified by the -i argument.
2. **Data Extraction:**
    * The CSV file specified in data_file is loaded.
3. **Data Cleaning and Transformation:**
    * The script applies column selection, renaming, transformations, and missing value handling as defined in the JSON configuration.
4. **Analysis:**
    * Depending on the --analysis argument, the script performs sequence analysis, including singles, pairs, triples, quads, or quints.
5. **Logging:**
    * Log messages are configured based on the --loglevel argument for better tracking and debugging.
6. **Dumping Sequences:**
    * If --dump is specified, the processed sequences are saved for further inspection.


## Example Usage

Run the script using the following command:

```bash
python script_name.py -i config.json -m 3 -k 5 -a pairs -l INFO --dump
```

### Explanation:
* Reads configuration from config.json.
* Minimum sequence length is set to 3.
* Runs k-means clustering with 5 clusters.
* Performs pair analysis.
* Logs messages at INFO level.
* Dumps sequences into a plot.


## Logging

Logs are configured to display timestamps, log levels, and messages to help track the script's progress and troubleshoot any issues.

```python
logging.basicConfig(level=logging.INFO, format='%(asctime)s - %(levelname)s - %(message)s')
```


## Return Value

The script does not return a value but writes logs and, if specified, dumps sequence outputs for plotting.

Commit message:

Added for Sequence Classification Model

README.md, after:

# babble-etl

# Data Processing and Analysis Tool Documentation

### Overview

This documentation outlines the process of data extraction, cleaning, transformation, and analysis of a CSV file using a configuration file in JSON format.


## JSON Configuration Structure
Below is an example of a JSON configuration file structure:

# clean_data.json
{
    "data_file": "path/to/your/input.csv",
    
    "columns": [
        "Nest ID", 
        "Nestling ID", 
        "Nestling", 
        "Sex", 
        "Treatment",
        "babbles"
    ],
    
    "transformations": {
        "Nest ID": "strip",
        "Date": "to_datetime"
    },
    
    "fill_na": {
        "numeric": 0,
        "string": ""
    },
    
    "rename_columns": {
        "old_name": "new_name"
    },
   
    "data_types": {
        "Nest ID": "str",
        "Nestling ID": "str",
        "babbles": "str"
    }
}


## Key Fields in the JSON File
* data_file: Path to the raw CSV file to be processed.
* columns: List of columns to be included in the dataset.
* transformations: Dictionary specifying any transformations to be applied to the data.
* fill_na: Dictionary for handling missing values in specific columns.
* rename_columns: Dictionary mapping original column names to new names.
* data_types: Dictionary specifying data types for columns, if applicable.


## Command Line Arguments

The following command-line arguments can be used to run the script:

| Argument             | Type   | Required | Default | Description                                                                                     |
|----------------------|--------|----------|---------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| -i, --input          | String | Yes      | N/A     | Path to the input JSON file for data cleaning and transformation steps.                         |
| -m, --minlength      | Int    | No       | 2       | Minimum length for sequences used in pair analysis.                                             |
| -k, --kmeans         | Int    | No       | 6       | Number of clusters for k-means clustering.                                                      |
| -a, --analysis       | String | No       | N/A     | Type of frequency analysis to perform (choices: singles, pairs, triples, quads, quints, all).   |
| -d, --dump           | Flag   | No       | False   | Flag to indicate if sequences should be dumped into a plot.                                     |
| -l, --loglevel       | String | No       | WARNING | Log level for script execution (choices: DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, CRITICAL).                |
| -sc, --sequenceclass | String | No       | N/A     | Name of Columns in Data Frame to configure the data input for the Sequence Classification Model |


## Script Workflow

1. **Configuration Parsing:**
    * The script reads the JSON configuration file specified by the -i argument.
2. **Data Extraction:**
    * The CSV file specified in data_file is loaded.
3. **Data Cleaning and Transformation:**
    * The script applies column selection, renaming, transformations, and missing value handling as defined in the JSON configuration.
4. **Analysis:**
    * Depending on the --analysis argument, the script performs sequence analysis, including singles, pairs, triples, quads, or quints.
5. **Logging:**
    * Log messages are configured based on the --loglevel argument for better tracking and debugging.
6. **Dumping Sequences:**
    * If --dump is specified, the processed sequences are saved for further inspection.
7. **Sequence Classification:**
    * Depending on the --sequenceclass argument, the script performs setting up the df and cvs for the Sequence Classification Model

## Example Usage

Run the script using the following command:

```bash
python script_name.py -i config.json -m 3 -k 5 -a pairs -l INFO --dump -- sc "Sex, Treatment"
```

### Explanation:
* Reads configuration from config.json.
* Minimum sequence length is set to 3.
* Runs k-means clustering with 5 clusters.
* Performs pair analysis.
* Logs messages at INFO level.
* Dumps sequences into a plot.
* Makes corresponding df and cvs for Sex and Treatment


## Logging

Logs are configured to display timestamps, log levels, and messages to help track the script's progress and troubleshoot any issues.

```python
logging.basicConfig(level=logging.INFO, format='%(asctime)s - %(levelname)s - %(message)s')
```


## Return Value

The script does not return a value but writes logs and, if specified, dumps sequence outputs for plotting.
